Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, I can.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hi, I'm Jessica. I don't think we've ever met.
Andris: No, I don't think so.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so I'm did is I was I'm looking at your chart and I was confused that you've been in this program for so long and you haven't had a bio psychosocial completed.
Andris: Okay.
Andris: Yeah, they're saying, I had to get it done. No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, you send in the program since 2017
Andris: Yeah, that's been that long.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, never been discharged from the program you've been with us. Wow, that's definitely an oversight.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I started. I'm one of the therapists with by heart health. I started like in late 2018 and you are a patient with added onto my caseload. So I guess that just somehow got overlooked. So thanks for pointing that out because it's definitely a high priority to get this done.
Andris: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you know what a bio psychosocial is
Andris: No, not really.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so I am going to explain that bio psychosocial is cattery past and present history that about addiction from you, family and just getting a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Very detailed overview of why you're in our program and why you're seeking treatment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So typically, I do this when patients are new to the program and they've been, you know, it's like the first week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So some of the questions I'm going to ask may seem a little awkward because you've been with us for so long. And now, and maximum. Next question. Okay, so I apologize in advance for any awkwardness that may come up. Okay.
Andris: No, it's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me what what brought you to bright heart health. What was your course of your addiction. History
Andris: Um, I just wanted to, you know, stop using basically I got tired of it.
Andris: And I knew I wasn't gonna be able to do it cold turkey. So, you know, ended up working out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. When did you first start using
Andris: I'm probably went when I was around
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: 2020. What did you use it was a drug of choice.
Andris: I started on open. It's like a
Andris: Just offseason stuff. And then I started doing heroin.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your first experiment with drugs with opioids.
Andris: No, not really. It was actually we
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. How old were you when you started with the lead.
Andris: Say 17
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. So you started using lead at 17 and then you started with axes, when you were 20
Andris: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was there any pain or any injury or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's no yeah
Andris: Just what the trends are doing. And no, I got into it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. All right. And then from there, what happened.
Andris: I started getting sick and my body knew that
Andris: I didn't want to do that. No more.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how long before realizing that this was now an addiction.
Andris: I'd say like two years into it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Two years were you doing autopsies and any other type of drugs.
Andris: No, that's
Andris: Talking to me, does it. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when did you start to realize that this was an addition for you that she wanted treatment for
Andris: Like around when I was like 23 I'd say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was happening around that time.
Andris: I was just real sick and I needed every day. You know, so I got tired of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was there any line, aside from yourself that kind of help get you to that realization that you want it treatment.
Andris: Yeah.
Andris: My family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so did you try stopping before on your own. Did you try any other programs before coming to heart health.
Andris: Oh yeah, actually, I tried to stopping
Andris: When I was like a two or so.
Andris: And it only lasted like six months or something. But I wasn't doing Suboxone or nothing. So no wonder
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That was good. So you you did your own detox and you were successful at that, for six months.
Andris: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's actually really good.
Andris: Okay, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, and so you tried that on your own and then any other program. So from there, you can support her hell.
Andris: No, actually brought her house was my first the first time I'd ever did something like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, do you have any family members or anyone else in this program.
Andris: No, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have a mental health history or diagnosis.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No man, taking a medication if I often
Andris: Just Clonidine, but that's what Don prescribes i guess i support medicine.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, have you ever made a plan or an intent to harm yourself or other people
Andris: No man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay we ever hospitalized because you were a threat to yourself.
Andris: No.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you ever seen a therapist before
Andris: Just Dominique
Andris: What's up,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Bro, okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How often do you see dominate.
Andris: Every week every Wednesday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh for group, but it like I mean like in an individual setting one on one.
Andris: No, never.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you up to date with your fool pneumonia and meningitis vaccine.
Andris: Oh, yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me about your family.
Andris: Um, it's a hard working family, you know, always felt a lot of love.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know i i had a good, a good upbringing, you know,
Andris: It was kind of weird that I went that path.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Everybody upbringing.
Andris: Like I said, I mean, it was, it was good. Life was good.
Andris: Um,
Andris: What do you mean exactly like just was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. So now in on the questions. How many siblings do you have
Andris: I had an older sister, but
Andris: She passed away you a while back.
Andris: And I have a little brother and
Andris: That's it. He's two years younger than me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you sister has
Andris: A car accident.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: male child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, there you and then your brother. Let's see exactly what's your relationship like with your brother.
Andris: Your great
Andris: Like my best friend.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your parents.
Andris: Are still together, you know, good people.
Andris: Hard working father's always work construction.
Andris: I'm my mom stay at home mom.
Andris: Always just great. You know, she's great kids.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do they have any addiction. History
Andris: No, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No domestic violence or physical abuse, sexual abuse, growing up in your household
No man.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does your parents have any mental health diagnosis.
Andris: No, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any medical content for that.
Andris: My mom.
Andris: She has fibromyalgia.
Andris: But that's why they have to really think of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You said your parents are married.
Andris: Yes.
Together.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you currently live with.
Andris: My parents
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any children.
Andris: Yes, I have two daughters.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'm currently in a relationship.
Andris: No man, not a woman.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So who has custody of your two daughters.
Andris: So I do
Andris: I have custody of the youngest one
Andris: She's six about my ex. She has the custody adulterous
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How does your audience.
Andris: She's a
Andris: Nice here on the summers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You so you have an eight and a six year old, he said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, ma'am. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your relationship like with him.
Andris: Great.
Andris: I love my kids.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you currently employed.
Andris: Not at the moment.
Andris: I actually do stuff around. I live in a ranch. No. So there's always a lot of work around here.
Oh,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where's your family from
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: New Mexico. Okay, I'm from Florida. So I'm trying to learn all the different little cities in New Mexico.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I also know one
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah okay so your family lives on a ranch. What's their occupation.
Andris: I'm
Andris: Like my father and them or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Uh huh.
Andris: Oh, my dad's a foreman for a construction company.
Andris: And my mom, she she stays at home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So tell me about school
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What grades like for you. What was your social life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell me more about that.
Andris: Um, I didn't graduate. I got to a junior year
Andris: I've always been real smart.
Andris: Always have like a problem with authority. I guess I didn't get along with my teachers like that.
So,
Andris: That didn't work out. But I always did my schoolwork, and stuffing know a lot
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of the highest level of education completed.
Andris: Junior
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Levels great nobody
Andris: Let's give me one second.
Andris: My daughter.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm said you completed junior year of high school and you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Always have problems with authority. Tell me more about that.
Andris: Just more a couple of teachers, you know, really never got along.
Andris: So when you say it wasn't nothing like crazy or nothing like
Andris: I never like would argue or nothing. That's just
Andris: I guess we would bump heads every now and then.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The challenges with authority with that limitation school settings. Was it across the board, like at home as well.
Andris: No more school, I'd say.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So challenges with authority. Any other challenges or difficulty in school.
Andris: No.
Not really.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you have any learning challenges or diagnosis at school.
Andris: Oh, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you say, currently, you're not working. But what was your job position prior to unemployment.
Andris: I did a few things I work construction.
Andris: I was a caregiver.
Andris: For my home health care and just a lot of ranching you know
Taking care of cows.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's your preference as far as career or job opportunities.
Andris: Like, like what kind of job I'm looking for
Yeah.
Andris: I'm
Andris: Probably construction or something. No, I've always done hard labor.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It to you. So what are your hobbies, like to do
Andris: I like to play basketball.
Andris: like video games like to spend time with my kids, um,
Andris: I still like to skateboard, but I haven't done it in such a long time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have any issues.
Andris: Legal
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
No matter
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How with the program. They're working out for you.
Andris: That's actually working great you know
Andris: I've been clean for almost three years now and
Andris: Everything's great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Awesome. So what meant to be addiction and then you said you had a good upbringing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Has put together, no history of addiction within your family.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What leads you to start exploring drugs at the age of 14
Andris: You know,
Andris: To be honest, um,
Andris: I guess there's really, like, not an excuse for, I guess I'd like to have
Andris: I did like to have a good time, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, um, when you're in group. Do they ever mentioned like a treatment plan or anything like that.
Andris: Oh yeah, Dominic. She has actually something set up like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, great. So let me take a look at what she has to be a treatment plan and then you wanted to add in additional
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Goals.
Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I see here for short term goals you want to increase your knowledge of addiction and the process of recovery that accurate.
Andris: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're still your new dreams and wishes.
Andris: Yeah.
Andris: That's still a big one.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so you didn't mention music in your hobbies.
Andris: Yeah, you're actually you're actually right.
Andris: No, I like to wrap know my right. Music
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, says, hey, you want to buy a laptop for your music.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And finished finish your barn projects.
Andris: At my grandpa's ranch we have a bunch of stuff to do up there.
Andris: We have to actually redo the roof and put it back up and get more hey in the in the barn.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And continue looking at areas in your life where you feel vulnerable.
Andris: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To have you identify currently in the areas that you do feel vulnerable.
Andris: No God. That's why I'm still working on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What what brought you to wanting to have that as a goal. What are you thinking
Andris: I think we had brought it up a meeting one time and
Andris: It just
Andris: It just sat in my head for many, you know,
Andris: Because not most men don't show fillings, you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With that, yeah.
Andris: Kind of, I guess, but
Andris: You know I'm seeing my grandpa crap. See, my dad cry, you know,
Andris: You know they show billings when they have two
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And a half, two and that is the adequate words and you have to. It's almost like you know in extreme situations with just regular. What does that look like when you're agitated and you're frustrated and how do you communicate through emotion that may feel a little uncomfortable.
Andris: Exactly. That's what vulnerability is. Thank you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I see you made some progress already some goals, goals that you complete it was share more open group identify interpersonal family dynamics.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And finish your grandfather's porch project.
Your spam.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so long term goals within the program. They are continuously helping you to identify the reason for the disease increase your knowledge in that building abstinence to Bernie about long term.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sobriety how the addicted brain works versus to sober and they'll use different treatment modalities. So cognitive behavioral therapy will be used.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I know dominate does a lot of meditation and relaxation techniques within her group, yes, those relaxation skills and identify thoughts. And why do you think we
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are actually treatment modalities that have been proven successful within addiction sometimes motivational interviewing will be used as well.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's if you're kind of in indecisive about different things, different strategies will be put in place to help get you to figure out your, your actual goals.
Andris: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are there any other short term or long term goals that you wanted to add to your treatment plan.
Andris: I'm not at the moment, but I'm pretty sure I'll big one soon.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sure. Tell me about when you are in those uncomfortable emotions that I talked about, what is your goal to defense mechanism. What do you typically do
Andris: I'm
Andris: Kind of just like
Andris: Walk people out, you know, I'll hang out by myself.
Andris: But that's basically what I do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Isolation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm going to do a trauma assessment tool with you and just let me know if this is relevant to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you ever been a victim of childhood sexual abuse.
Andris: Your man.
Great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you survived any natural disasters.
Andris: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been in a motor vehicle accident.
Andris: Luckily, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you any military veteran.
Andris: Number.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you deny any physical abuse growing up. Have you ever been a victim of a violent crime.
Andris: No.
Andris: I mean, I've been in first wife and stuff, but nothing crazy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm a victim of domestic violence.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No man. Have you ever been the aggressor in a domestic violence situation.
No matter
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How about sexual harassment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you ever witnessed a traumatic event.
Andris: No, nothing like like someone passing away or something.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Please, you mentioned that your older sister died. So what was the impact of that for you. How did you find out
Andris: The police came knocking.
Andris: At our front door.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how old were you
Andris: Trying to date on
Andris: Me too. I want to say.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is this is recent
Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How did your family called after after that last
Andris: It was tough. It took a while took a couple years.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You guys have any traditions or anything that you all do to honor her memory.
Andris: Oh yeah, we always talk to her flowers for her birthday.
Andris: Memorial Day.
Andris: And Christmas and
Andris: Thanksgiving. That was one of her favorite holiday squares. Springer stuff. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Memorial Day is approaching so
Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why don't you trigger is to have there been anything that you've identified that you feel puts your sobriety and compromising situation.
Andris: No. Not lately. You know, I mean, I really don't have much triggers. I'm actually
Andris: I have my foot grounded. No, no, I want to go back to that lifestyle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So how would you describe your level of stress mild, moderate, or severe
Andris: Mild
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. Looks like it looks like you just kind of like very chill. That's good. I'm glad to hear that you're benefiting from the program and that things are working out well for you. Did you have any questions for me.
Andris: Um, I think, I think we covered everything
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, thank you. I know it seems a little awkward you stable in this program, but thanks for coming and making the appointment.
Andris: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Thank you. Take care. Have a good night.
Andris: You too. Thank you so much, you have a good one.